So the rest of this app is really just taking the information that we have and getting it set up inside
of our list view.
So I'm going to leave this to you as a challenge because everything we're going to cover here you can
completely handle on your own so I really recommend you do this.
Go ahead make all the Bluetooth devices that we find.
Add them to a list view that check to say hey if they haven't and I'm going to show the name if not
I'm going to show the address.
But then also in either case make sure you show the RSS eye and then when someone does another search
be sure to clear out the previous results that you had.
Jane.
Go ahead.
Hit pause do that now.
All right hopefully that went well for you.
So what we got to do is first go ahead and set up our list for you.
So there's a couple of things that we need to do here.
We already have access to our list view but we need to have an array adapter so that we can fill in
you know information side of the re adapter and so excuse me a re list is what we need up here so we're
going to say array list and this is going to be full of a bunch of strings.
We'll go ahead and make that.
We're going to call this Bluetooth devices.
OK.
So we'll have that set up in fact maybe let's just go ahead and say this is equal to a new array list
and we don't have to worry about setting that up later.
Next we need to make sure that we have an array adapter.
So we'll go ahead and take make an array adapter and I'll just call the array adapter.
That will stop there.
So we'll come back to our on create to create our ray adapter will say array adapter is equal to a new
array adapter so a couple of things that we got to pass in there so first is this for a context then
we want to go ahead and pass lowercase.
Android capital are not lay out that simple list item one.
Then we have to pass the frailest And in this case that's going to be the blue tooth devices.
All right.
So once we have the array adapter set up we want to go ahead and set that to our list view and say List
view that set adapter.
We'll go ahead and pass that array adapter.
Now this all looks fine but really the next step for us is we have to add those strings to the list
view and then we've got to tell the last few hey you've got new information.
You should go ahead and update that.
So with this we're going to go after here right now where we're doing this big log of showing all this
information and then we want to do a check here.
So the thing that we want to check is like I said before we can go ahead and comment.
So we don't need to log all that anymore.
The thing that we want to check and see if there is a name.
So we're going to say if name dot equals we're going to do the double quotes like this.
Well then that means that it's an empty string.
Right.
And then in that case we would want to use the address.
So if that is the case we're going to say Bluetooth adapter Bluetooth devices dot add and this is where
we would want to add a combination here.
So if we if the name's blank in this case we would want to add the address plus a space and then we're
going to do a dash and then show what the are.
SS I is and we're going to go ahead and express that I say an our SS No lower case your are SSI.
We also want to on the end of this.
Go ahead and provide a little bit extra.
The sort of unit that is used here when talking about our SSI.
So I know nothing about this and why this is but it's lower case D capital B lower case.
And that's what we want to add.
So in the ELTs situation we want to do almost the exact same thing except rather than use the address
we want to use the name.
So we'll go ahead and pass the name inside of there and then regardless of the situation we want to
go ahead and update the adapter to let it know about the new information that we have.
So we're going to get access to our array adapter and I want to say DOD notify data set changed Jane.
So let's go ahead and run this on our device see what we get and we'll go ahead and open up Pfizer.
Such a great app.
Love this thing and we'll see what we get.
So here it comes.
I'm going to do a search and oh do we have an there.
Let's see what we've got going on here.
So the air ultimately came down to this we had a null pointer exception it was saying a attempting attempt
to invoke virtual method boolean on a no object and if we look it's on 9:46 So when I went and saw this
I said name equals Well why is that an issue.
Well it's an issue because maybe name is no and you know in which case name is actually either going
to be null rather than be an empty string.
So that was mishandling that so let me go ahead and fix that the first thing that we want to check is
first see is if the name is equal to Noal or name that equals an empty string so this will handle the
two cases.
But this one being in front if this thing is no it won't run the rest of the code so we won't risk you
know having our app crash.
So with that in place let's go ahead and run this one more time and see what it looks like.
KERRY Well go ahead look at our app here.
Let me pull up the view so you can see it.
We will do a search and look at that boom.
We got all sorts of information coming in here and like it's still searching it hasn't said finished
yet so it's still look at that 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8.
Now it's found a lot of information here.
So it's gone through a lot and it finally said finished here now.
Once it got to this place we have a couple of issues here so one is you know oh I don't have the bluetooth
thing up right.
So if I go ahead and open this up don't open my Bluetooth preferences and it's like right now I want
to do a search and I'm going to go hit search because you know I want to see the one that says Nick
pro and if I scroll through here eventually we'll see the one that says MacBook Pro but you notice it
didn't clear out the stuff from before.
So that's a big issue.
The other issues you'll see that we have some repeats here.
So for example specifically here in the first case these have the exact same address yet it was added
twice.
And so we don't want to add the same address twice.
We want to you know do some sort of check and make sure that that's the thing that we're about to add
into the list is not already there.
So what we're going to do next is.
So first let's make it so that whenever we go in and finding information that we're clearing the proper
stuff.
So let's give ourselves some space to look at the code here.
And I think we should make it whenever the user hits that start discovery button even before they do
that we should go ahead and clear out the list so we're going to take our Bluetooth devices array list
as they got clear.
Now with that in place before we go ahead and do one of these ads there probably another check that
we want to do to see if that blue tooth device has already been you know added to the list.
And so this is where we would want to take our Bluetooth devices and we would want to do a dot contains
check on that.
So in order to do this we're going to have to add do the adding functionality down below so let's instead
make a string up here that we'll call device string which is initially just set this equal to an empty
string.
It now rather than doing an ad we're going to say device string you are equal to.
I just accidentally deleted that address blah blah blah.
All that info.
So let's go ahead and do same thing over here.
We're going to say hey the device string is equal to this.
And then with this information we are going to go ahead and do our final check here.
So we're going to say if two are parentheses and we want to do Bluetooth devices dot the contains and
this is where we're going to pass in the device string and this will give us a true or false so if it
does already contain that there's nothing that we want to do because we don't want to repeat it.
So in fact we're going to put an exclamation point before this to say if it doesn't contain that then
that's a situation where we would want to say OK Bluetooth devices not add and or simply add that device
string.
So there's simply you know just kind of does a little check make sure we haven't already added this
before to the app so we'll go ahead and run this.
Let's get our visor friend up and running here.
All right app pops up we hit search and it's going to go through and pull some information.
Look at that.
Got the new book pro and so far no duplicates will allow this to run its course.
I'm going to kind of wave my phone around see if we can pick up anything else here and still have not
gotten any duplicates except for this one we did get a duplicate.
So the duplicate problem that we're getting in here is that the DBM the RSS site is changing right so
that in this case it was the same Bluetooth device but they had different RSA size.
So we're going to have to tweak our approach to this a little bit.
So we're going to go ahead and add one more array list here so we already have our Bluetooth devices.
Let's go ahead and keep that intact but let's make a separate array list that we're going to go ahead
and call and address.
So we'll call this address new array lists.
I guess I should call this addresses this because this is going to contain all the Bluetooth addresses
and every Bluetooth device has to have an address but it doesn't have to have a name.
So not only is this going to protect us when the RSA site change.
But for example with that Nick MacPro maybe you would show up one time as Nick book pro maybe one time
it would show up with just its address.
So in those situations this is also going to protect us.
So with this new array list we have to make sure that when we do a new search that we go ahead and clear
out this list as well.
So add that code and then we'll make it so that when before we go ahead and do this if statement.
All right we are going to add to our address's array because we know how to do that really is say simply
addresses dot add and we want to use me addresses and we'll just simply add the string that we want
which is called address.
So this is the actual thing that we want to check.
So let's go ahead and do an if statement here.
Well we're going to say all right if lowercase if if addresses that contains an address like this and
we want to do our excellent exclamation point to say as long as it doesn't already contain this address
we are going to go ahead and add this address.
And we are also going to do all the following.
So again we don't want to do this check down here so go ahead and get rid of that.
But all this code inside of here we do want to go ahead and do that.
And we also want to notify the array adapter if we don't have any new information.
Right it's just like a repeat that we don't want to update the list view.
So we'll go ahead and move this in and say only if this is the case do we want to go ahead and move
forward with this.
All right.
So let's go ahead and run that and see what we get on the device.
Opens up.
Now it's about to go and we'll hit search and we go looking and we don't have anything coming and so
we must have done some backward logic with this.
OK so if addresses contains the address then.
So I'm wondering why this is not adding anything to us here because we're still doing the Bluetooth
devices that ad that's showing up the proper information.
Well let me go ahead and show you how to do an old school debug here you can kind of watch me live.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to put a little red dot here I'm going to stop the current process
that we have going.
Going to do a debug on the actual Android device so this will be kind of fun to see what goes on here.
So here the app opens up.
I'm going to hit search and we can see it comes to this line.
So then I'm going to go ahead and say step into.
And it automatically passed over.
So there's something bad about my if statement here where I'm saying address it's not addresses it's
simply just a singular address.
That's what the issue is.
OK we'll put addresses there.
Now let's go ahead and run this and that should work.
That's all it takes sometimes what debugging is to say.
OK.
It didn't do this if statement.
So obviously the problem is right here.
And then you know you can kind of go from there and figure out what's going on.
All right we'll hit search and there we go we've got some information pulling up now.
We'll do our check and make sure that we're not getting any sort of repeats here wait until this is
finished.
Again way my device around so it has a chance to pick up new things at different distances and also
throw things out of whack there.
And look it's finished but we've lost our less fuel so let's search one more time here and I'm just
going to move around my device and look at that.
We have no repeats.
I guess I should wait till we get the official information there.
But wait till it says Finast and you still searching come on phone you can do it.
I think you think you check them all out.
There we go.
Finished.
And we didn't have any repeats.
Great.
So I hope you enjoyed making this app again.
You can move much further into bluetooth with talking about you know once you have a bluetooth device
you could make it so that when someone clicks on one of these you could dive into that particular device
to learn more information about it or actually connect to it.
Every Bluetooth device is going to have their own API so it's kind of tough to teach that because every
situation is going to be different but all sorts of great documentation on there out there about that
hopefully enjoyed learning about Bluetooth and we still got more to cover in this course so let's keep
moving forward.